---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

## Just a Weekly Blog 

This week marked the start of the first of many collaborative projects for this course! As team green, our objective for the week was to complete the group assignment in class: an introduction to google chrome/mozilla firefox extension development and kick off the ideation and very early development phase for our own extension. 

Our group’s initial meeting and collaboration on the in-class assignment was a breath of fresh air in comparison to my many, many other lecture courses. I really enjoyed being not only able but pushed to actively communicate and participate in class activities with my peers rather than each of us just sitting in our own bubbles listening to lecture, the standard in many other CS courses I’ve taken in my 4 years here at NYU CAS. I quickly found that, after some brief introduction, my group mates were similarly eager to work together and lend a helping hand, which made the class activity move quickly and smoothly. 

For this activity, we also investigated the github structure and code of conduct for our favorite open source extension, UBlock Origin, which we found to be a very well structured and inviting OS project. This foray into the world of open source extension development gave us both inspiration for our own idea and insight into how designing and producing it would look like. 

Asynchronously, we decided on a tab grouping, coloring, and matching extension and began our ideation process on everything that the development for this project would need, a nice intro to how project collaboration would function throughout this course. Overall, I’m quite satisfied with how this course is shaping up to be so far, and I look forward to following through with our first group project. 
