---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---
# Week 10 Blog: Continued Group Work and Cathedral and the Bazaar

This week saw the lengthy continuation of our group work with contributing towards Keycloak, and I feel our group made major strides in identifying some major issues we could work on together, as well as some minor contributions we could complete individually. Some of us made posts and issues to discuss some fixes we could potentially work on with other Keycloak contributors and maintainers, while others made minor spell check/README contributions already. Significantly, we divided into sub groups to tackle 2 major contributions: backend connections to provide translations to theme descriptions and customizeable session timeout duration for users. I'll work on tests for these changes (mostly working on the first one) and work closely with my other group members to properly make these fixes while adhering to Keycloak developer practices. 

As for the essay we will be discussing, I was interested by its discussion on the contrast between two core models of software development: a Cathedral model of traditional and closed development vs. a Bazaar model of open, collaborative, and decentralized development. Since the essay itself heavily supports the Bazaar model (which is in essence open source development), I can definitely see and understand the author's perspective that open source is a very effective engineering philosophy, especially in the author's choice to view software development as an ecosystem rather than a hierarchy.

Finally, after noticing that my personal contributions were quite lacking (due to some previously getting rejected), I recently made some Wikipedia contributions to help get a jumpstart in some public changes that I knew would be accepted so I could get a quick mental boost to tackle some more complicated changes.