---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

# Week 12 Blog: Businesses in Open Source

While the idea of private businesses engaging in and using open source software and projects may initially seem contradictory (why should a private entity with for-profit goals be able and allowed to interact with non-profit, free-to-use resources meant for the public?), it actually falls pretty in line, at least in my perspective, with the main goal of open source contributions: to produce something for everyone, no matter who or for what purpose they may be used. As is reflected in our class discussions and materials, this business-opensource symbiosis also directly benefits OS projects; in addition to countless regular, nameless individuals across the connected web, many companies also actively fund and donate to open source projects to keep them alive, maintained, and constantly improved. 

An interesting angle that I had not previously considered was some private companies being largely focused on developing open source projects, while keeping some marketable or valuable enterprise products to sell to sustain themselves and maintain development. The ratio of private to public can vary wildly as well: on one end, GitLab is a mainly open source focused development, though it does offer propietary and enterprise-level features that allow it to continue proper support. On the opposite side of the spectrum, I was surprised to learn that Microsoft, though primarily a private, for-profit enterprise, also actively contributes, funds, and releases open source projects, mainly in work tied to Linux, WSL, .NET, and Azure. 

Open source stays alive because the community keeps it going. Contributors, donors, and regular users all play a role in making sure this software stays available and useful. At the same time, I think some companies benefit way more from open source than they actually give back; However,that is simply part of what makes open source what it is: people are free to use it however they want as long as they obey the license guidelines. Because of that, I think people should be more aware of the tools they rely on and try to support the community, whether that is through code contributions, donations, or other forms of help, so the open source cycle can keep going.