---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---
# Week 5 Blog: Presentations and Keynotes

In our first class this week, we got to listen to many other different groups' presentations about their extension project. Seeing the many different ideas, approaches, and developmental roadmaps of my peers compared to the route that my group took really put into perspective the various methods of coding and software development that each individual developer uses. 

This week’s asynchronous keynote video excercise deeply affected how I think about open source beyond just writing code. Kelsey Hightower’s point about not obsessing over building a “moat” really stood out to me. As a CS student, we’re often taught by the circumstances of the current job market to think competitively by protecting your idea, differentiating, and blocking competitors, but open source seems to reward the opposite mindset. The idea that your real advantage comes from execution, community trust, and delivering consistent value feels more sustainable than trying to restrict others. It also made me reflect on how collaboration can actually strengthen a project rather than weaken it.

I was also struck by how both Craig McLuckie and Linus Torvalds emphasized responsibility when it comes to tools. AI can speed up development, but it can also introduce hidden risks like stale dependencies or security issues if we rely on it blindly. Linus comparing AI to past tooling shifts (like compilers) made me realize that progress in software is more about abstraction that replacement, a key theme across multiple weeks I've come to realize. As future engineers, we’ll likely use AI heavily, but the accountability still falls on us. That balance between innovation and responsibility was probably the most interesting takeaway for me.