---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---
# Week 7 Blog: First week of group collaboration

As the class' major final group project is now well underway, my group and I have already had the opportunity to work together, both in class and over digital meetings, to come together on what open source project we all want to contribute to for the majority remainder of this course. After much deliberation, including individually evaluating a list of the many projects we were potentially interested in and weighing the pros and cons of selecting each, we decided on Keycloak, an open source web security and authentication application. This was due to the project's active community, value to ourselves, and a member's previous experience with the project, both in contributing to it and using it for his own work. 

This first practice in collaboration and making a difficult decision as a group very likely set the foundation for how we will move forward in this project: should there be a major decision or split in opinion for the group, we will reason through it respectfully and logically to make the best choice. 

During our last class' group progress reports, it was most useful and insightful for me to hear about how other groups were progressing in the initial stages of this project so that I could gather a well enough understanding of whether my own group was up to speed on getting our contributions underway. While since it was a bit of a while ago and I cannot exactly remember what all the groups said, some projects came to mind as particularly interesting. Pandas immediately came to my attention since our group was also heavily considering Pandas before deciding on KeyCloak, so it was, for lack of a better word, reassuring to hear that the Pandas group's initial foray into the project was indeed as accessible, inviting, and detailed as we surmised it to be. In other words, it was good to hear that our project evaluation for Pandas was accurate, as it could bode well for our similarly positive evaluation of KeyCloak moving forward. I will also be interested to hear more about Nanobot, a personal AI agent assistant that one of the groups is working on, as it is quite relevant to work I did over the summer and will likely continue with after graduating. While the group itself didn't present much about contributing as we are all still in the early stages, I will be eager to hear more about their experience as the class progresses. 

As far as comparisons between our group and other go, I'd say due to all of us being in the first couple weeks of the project, we all have had similar approaches to dipping our toes in to our respective projects for initial contributions. It seems as of the last class, groups have all decided on their projects, began environment setups, and identified or began working on some beginner friendly issues. While some groups may not have completed all of these steps, since our group has, I would like to say that my group is on the right track, and that each of our members has a good and equal sense of how to work together on this project.