---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---
# Week 4 Blog: Thoughts and Events

In the realm of Open Source Software Development this week, I've been able to both further explore an OS-like project contained within the course itself and begin to dip my toes in fully open source development through the lens of project evaluation. 

## Extension Project

This week marks the last few days of the Google Chrome extension project my team has been working on. Since deciding on the main idea, an extension that allows users to color their browser tabs with custom colors and designs, we've slightly pivoted to a more tab grouped system (since Chrome does not allow extensions to directly change tab colors). Having this realization of a hard blocker for our initial idea and working as a team to think and work through this issue to pivot to our new idea was an incredibly valuable experience for me to understand firsthand what it takes to see a project through to its conclusion no matter what difficulties or obstacles may hinder its development.

Once we finally got into the full swing of development coding, it was a similarly interesting learning experience for me to work through such an interlaced group setting for a school project. Actively and constantly communicating with my team members, coordinating git actions and cleaning up merges, and organizing our different ideas into one cohesive product were all aspects of contributing to an open source project that I've seldom worked with in my other CS courses throughout my time as a student. I'm sure that these skills will be one of if not the most important lessons I'll take with me as I transition into my career as a full time software engineer.

## Project Evaluation and Open Source

During class this week, the project evaluation exercise was a welcome surprise for further cementing my expectations for actually getting into public open source projects with strangers rather than fellow classmates. Inspecting my assigned project, GIMP (Gnu Image Manipulation Program), for various criteria like how active the project is, how inviting the community appears, and how easily it would be for me to get into contributing to the project was really eye opening in providing me with my own search criteria for finding my own good open source contributions. 

Afterwards, I briefly looked into freeCodeCamp, an open source site and project on github that aims to help new coders with practice in coding and making software contributions. Despite not technically being a "new" coder as their target audience, I felt like it would be a good way to practice making my first open source contributions on a site that is readily available and willing to receive beginners in the space. The instructions in the repository are very clear, precise, and informative, and the contributors and admins seem very open to help and provide guidance to others. I'll be looking to make my first contributions to this project soon!